Add new model docs (#9667)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/add_new_model.rst

of the model’s original repository. At Hugging Face, we are trying to empower the community more and more to add models
independently. Thus, for some new models that the community wants to be added to 🤗 Transformers, we create a customized
*call-for-model-addition* that explains step-by-step how to add the requested model. With this
*call-for-model-addition*, we want to teach a motivated and experienced contributor of the community how to port a
model to 🤗 Transformers.

If this sounds like something you would be interested in, feel free to check out the currently open
“calls-for-model-addition” `here
<https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/templates/adding_a_new_model/open_model_proposals/README.md>`__
and to contact us.

If selected, you will then work closely with one member of the Hugging Face team to integrate the model into 🤗
Transformers. By doing so, you will both gain a theoretical and deep practical understanding of the proposed model. But
more importantly, you will have made a major open-source contribution to 🤗 Transformers. Along the way, you will:

> -  get insights into open-source best practices,
> -  understand the design principles of one of the most popular NLP libraries,
> -  learn how to do efficiently test large NLP models,
> -  learn how to integrate python utilities like ``black``, ``isort``, ``make fix-copies`` into a library to always
>    ensure clean and readable code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  get insights into open-source best practices,
-  understand the design principles of one of the most popular NLP libraries
-  learn how to do efficiently test large NLP models
-  learn how to integrate python utilities like ``black``, ``isort``, ``make fix-copies`` into a library to always
   ensure clean and readable code
```

bullets normally don't have commas/dots

inherits from :obj:`BrandNewBertPreTrainedModel` which in turn inherits from :class:`~transformres.PreTrainedModel` and
that's it. As a general rule, we want to make sure that the only existing class a new model depends on is
:class:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel`. The important functionalities that are automatically provided to every new
model are :meth:`~transformres.PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained` and
:meth:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel.save_pretrained`, which are used for serialization and deserialization. All of the
other important functionalities, such as :meth:`BrandNewBertModelforward` should be more or less completely be defined
in the new ``modeling_brand_new_bert.py`` script. Next, we want to make sure that a model with a specific head layer,
such as :obj:`BrandNewBertForMaskedLM` does not inherit from :obj:`BrandNewBertModel`, but rather uses
:obj:`BrandNewBertModel` as a component that can be called in its forward pass. Every new model requires its
configuration class, called :obj:`BrandNewBertConfig`. This configuration is always stored as an attribute in the

> model, and thus can be accessed the ``config`` attribute:

Author: Good point!

   .. code:: python

      model = BrandNewBertModel.from_pretrained("brandy/brand_new_bert")
      model.config  # model has access to the config

The config then inherits basic serialization and deserialization functionalities from
:class:`~transformers.PretrainedConfig` in the same fashion the model inherits from
:class:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel`.

Overview of tokenizers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Not quite ready yet :-( This section will be added soon!

Author: Yeah, not ready yet and will do this in a follow-up PR -> this PR is getting too big

Step-by-step recipe to add a model to 🤗 Transformers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Everyone has different preferences of how to port a model so it can be very helpful for you to take a look at summaries
of how other contributors ported models to Hugging Face. Here is a list of community blog posts on how to port a model:

1. `Porting GPT2 Model <https://medium.com/huggingface/from-tensorflow-to-pytorch-265f40ef2a28>`__ by `Thomas
   <https://huggingface.co/thomwolf>`__
2. `Porting WMT19 MT Model <https://huggingface.co/blog/porting-fsmt>`__ by `Stas <https://huggingface.co/stas>`__
3. TODO(PVP): ADD TAPAS blog post by Niels?

From experience, the most important things to keep in mind when adding a model are:

-  Don’t reinvent the wheel! Most parts of the code you will add for the new 🤗 Transformers model already exists
   somewhere in 🤗 Transformers. Take some time to find similar, already existing models and tokenizers you can copy
   from. `grep <https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/>`__ and `rg <https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep>`__ are your

>    friends.

Author: yes very good point!

-  It’s more of an engineering challenge than a scientific challenge. You should spend more time on creating an

>    efficient debugging environment than trying to understand all theoretical aspects of the model in the paper.

Author: Agree, but I also don't want to scare away motivated developers that have a hard time understanding a "too-complex-written" paper.

-  Ask for help, when you’re stuck! Models are the core component of 🤗 Transformers so that we at Hugging Face are more
   than happy to help you at every step to add your model. Don’t hesitate to ask if you notice you are not making
   progress.

In the following, we try to give you a general recipe that we found most useful when porting a model to 🤗 Transformers.

The following list is a summary of everything that has to be done to add a model and can be used by you as a To-Do
List:

-  ☐ Understood theoretical aspects
-  ☐ Prepared environment
-  ☐ Set up debugging environment of the original repository
-  ☐ Created script that successfully runs forward pass using original repository and checkpoint
-  ☐ Successfully added the model skeleton to Transformers
-  ☐ Successfully converted original checkpoint to Transformers checkpoint

> -  ☐ Successfully ran forward pass in Transformers that gives identical output to original checkpoint

Author: I go deeper into this later

-  ☐ Finished model tests in Transformers
-  ☐ Successfully added Tokenizer in Transformers
-  ☐ Run end-to-end integration tests on GPU
-  ☐ Finished docs
-  ☐ Uploaded model weights to the hub

> -  ☐ Merged the pull request

Author: Yeah, also it's on us to merge

   summarization?
-  What is the novel feature of the model making it different from BERT or BART (if it’s an encoder-decoder model)?
-  Which of the already existing `🤗 Transformers models <https://huggingface.co/transformers/#contents>`__ is most
   similar to *brand_new_bert*?
-  What type of tokenizer is used? A sentencepiece tokenizer? Word piece tokenizer? Is it the same tokenizer as used
   for BERT or BART?

After you feel like you have gotten a good overview of the architecture of the model, you might want to write the
Hugging Face team for any questions you might have. This might include questions regarding the model’s architecture,
its attention layer, etc. We will be more than happy to help you.

Next prepare your environment
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Fork the `repository <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ by clicking on the ‘Fork’ button on the
   repository’s page. This creates a copy of the code under your GitHub user account.

2. Clone your fork to your local disk, and add the base repository as a remote:

   .. code:: bash

>       git clone https://github.com/[your Github handle]/transformers.git

Reviewer 2: I would prefer using `git@github.com:[your Github handle]/transformers.git`, because when using the clone over https you're required to enter your GitHub user name + password, whereas this solution requires a proper SSH key setup.

(Btw: https clone don't work when you - hopefully - use 2-factor auth with GitHub)

Reviewer: or they can use my script that does all the setup work for you (over ssh though):
https://github.com/stas00/git-tools/blob/master/how-to-make-pr/github-make-pr-branch
and then I just have aliases:
```
alias trbr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 huggingface transformers"
alias dabr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 huggingface datasets"
alias blbr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 huggingface blog"
alias dsbr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 microsoft DeepSpeed"
alias ptbr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 pytorch pytorch"
alias fsbr="github-make-pr-branch ssh stas00 facebookresearch fairscale"
```

      cd transformers
      git remote add upstream https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git

3. Set up a development environment, for instance by running the following command:

   .. code:: bash

      python -m venv .env
      source .env/bin/activate
      pip install -e ".[dev]"

and return to the parent directory

.. code:: bash

   cd ..

4. We recommend adding the PyTorch version of *brand_new_bert* to Transformers. To install PyTorch, please follow the
   instructions on https://pytorch.org/.

> **Note:** You don’t need to have CUDA installed. It is sufficient to just be working on the CPU.

Author: yeah delete the "on GPU" that I added previously - good catch!

5. To port *brand_new_bert*, you will also need access to its original repository:

.. code:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/brand_new_bert_org/brand_new_bert.git 
   cd brand_new_bert
   pip install -e .

Now you have set up a development environment to port *brand_new_bert* to 🤗 Transformers.

Run a pretrained checkpoint using the original repository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At first, you will work on the original repository. Often, the original implementation is very “researchy” meaning that

> documentation might be lacking and the code can be difficult to understand. But this should be exactly your motivation
> to reimplement *brand_new_bert*. At Hugging Face, one of our main goals is to *make people stand on the shoulders of
> giants* which translates here very well into taking a working model and rewriting it to make it as **accessible,
> user-friendly, and beautiful** as possible. This is the number-one motivation to re-implement models into 🤗
> Transformers - trying to maximize access to a complex new NLP technology for **everybody**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
documentation might be lacking and the code can be difficult to understand. But this should be exactly your motivation
to reimplement *brand_new_bert*. At Hugging Face, one of our main goals is to *make people stand on the shoulders of
giants*, which translates well to taking a working model and rewriting it to make it as accessible,
user-friendly, and beautiful as possible. This is the number-one motivation to re-implement models into 🤗
Transformers - trying to maximize access to complex new NLP technology for everybody.
```
A bit too much flashy mark up for my taste ;-)

   *e.g.* EncoderModel, DecoderModel? Where is the self-attention layer? Are there multiple different attention layers,
   *e.g.* *self-attention*, *cross-attention*...?
-  How can you debug the model in the original environment of the repo? Do you have to set `print` statements, can you
   work with an interactive debugger like `ipdb`, or should you use an efficient IDE to debug the model, like PyCharm?

It is very important that before you start opening a PR in 🤗 Transformers that you can **efficiently** debug code in
the original repository!

At this point, it is really up to you which debugging environment and strategy you prefer to debug the original model.
We strongly advise against setting up a costly GPU environment, but simply work on a CPU both when starting to dive
into the original repository and also when starting to write the 🤗 Transformers implementation of the model. Only in
the very end, when the model has already been successfully ported to 🤗 Transformers, one should verify that the model
also works as expected on GPU.

In general, there are two possible debugging environments for running the original model

> -  `Jupyther notebooks <https://jupyter.org/>`_, *e.g.* the `google colab

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  `Jupyther notebooks <https://jupyter.org/>`_, *e.g.* `google colab
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  `Jupyter notebooks <https://jupyter.org/>`_, *e.g.* the `google colab
```

   <https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb>`_
-  Local python scripts.

> Jupiter notebooks have the advantage that they allow for cell-by-cell execution which can be helpful to better split

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jupyter notebooks have the advantage that they allow for cell-by-cell execution which can be helpful to better split
```

logical components from one another and to have faster debugging cycles as intermediate results can be stored. Also,
notebooks are often easier to share with other contributors, which might be very helpful if you want to ask the Hugging

> Face team for help. If you are familiar with Jupiter notebooks, we strongly recommend you to work with them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Face team for help. If you are familiar with Jupyter notebooks, we strongly recommend you to work with them.
```

single forward pass using a dummy integer vector of input IDs as an input. Such a script could look like this (in
pseudocode):

.. code:: bash

   model = BrandNewBertModel.load_pretrained_checkpoint(/path/to/checkpoint/)
   input_ids = [0, 4, 5, 2, 3, 7, 9]  # vector of input ids
   original_output = model.predict(input_ids)

Next, regarding the debugging strategy, there are generally from which to choose from:

-  Decompose the original model into many small testable components and run a forward pass on each of those for
   verification
-  Decompose the original model only into the original *tokenizer* and the original *model*, run a forward pass on
   those, and use intermediate print statements or breakpoints for verification

Again, it is up to you which strategy to choose. Often, one or the other is advantageous depending on the original code
base.

If the original code base allows you to decompose the model into smaller subcomponents, *e.g.* if the original codebase
can easily be run in eager mode, it is usually worth the effort to do so. There are some important advantages to taking
the more difficult road in the beginning:

> -  at a later stage when comparing the original model to the hugging face implementation, you can verify automatically

Author: ```suggestion
-  at a later stage when comparing the original model to the Hugging Face implementation, you can verify automatically
```

   retrieve intermediate values. Is the original repository written in Tensorflow 1? Then you might have to rely on
   TensorFlow print operations like https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/print to output intermediate values.
   Is the original repository written in Jax? Then make sure that the model is **not jitted** when running the forward
   pass, *e.g.* check-out `this link <https://github.com/google/jax/issues/196>`_.
-  Use the smallest pretrained checkpoint you can find. The smaller the checkpoint, the faster your debug cycle
   becomes. It is not efficient if your pretrained model is so big that your forward pass takes more than 10 seconds.
   In case only very large checkpoints are available, it might make more sense to create a dummy model in the new
   environment with randomly initialized weights and save those weights for comparison with the 🤗 Transformers version
   of your model
-  Make sure you are using the easiest way of calling a forward pass in the original repository. Ideally, you want to
   find the function in the original repository that **only** calls a single forward pass, *i.e.* that is often called

>    `predict`, `evaluate`, `forward` or `__call__`. You don't want to debug a function that calls `forward` multiple

Author: ```suggestion
   `'predict``, ``evaluate``, ``forward`` or ``__call__``. You don't want to debug a function that calls ``forward`` multiple
```

>    times, *e.g.* to generate text, like `autoregressive_sample`, `generate`.

Author: ```suggestion
   times, *e.g.* to generate text, like ``autoregressive_sample``, ``generate``.
```

-  Make sure that the model in your debugging setup is **not** in training mode, which often causes the model to yield
   random outputs due to multiple dropout layers in the model. Make sure that the forward pass in your debugging
   environment is **deterministic** so that the dropout layers are not used. Or use `transformers.file_utils.set_seed`
   if the old and new implementations are in the same framework.

The following section gives you more specific details/tips on how you can do this for *brand_new_bert*.

Implement BrandNewBert into 🤗 Transformers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next, you can finally add code to 🤗 Transformers. Go into the clone of your 🤗 Transformers’ fork:

::

   cd transformers

In the special case that you are adding a model whose architecture exactly matches the model architecture of an
existing model you only have to add a conversion script as described in `this section <#write-a-conversion-script>`__.
In this case, you can just re-use the whole model architecture of the already existing model.

> 

Reviewer: FWIW, while porting I did a lot of:
```
cp modeling_bart.py modeling_fsmt.py
perl -pi -e 's|Bart|FSMT|g' modeling_fsmt.py
```
So basically building on the existing code and just renaming the classes.

Author: Yes! This should be done automatically now with the cookie-cutter tool

Otherwise, let’s start generating a new model with the amazing Cookiecutter!

**Use the Cookiecutter to automatically generate the model’s code**

To begin with head over to the `🤗 Transformers templates
<https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/templates/adding_a_new_model>`__ to make use of our
``cookiecutter`` implementation to automatically generate all the relevant files for your model. Again, we recommend
only adding the PyTorch version of the model at first. Make sure you follow the instructions of the ``README.md`` on
the `🤗 Transformers templates <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/templates/adding_a_new_model>`__
carefully.

**Open a Pull Request on the main ``huggingface/transformers`` repo**

Before starting to adapt the automatically generated code, now is the time to open a “Work in progress (WIP)” pull
request, *e.g.* “[WIP] Add *brand_new_bert*”, in 🤗 Transformers so that you and the Hugging Face team can work
side-by-side on integrating the model into 🤗 Transformers.

You should do the following:

> 1. Commit the automatically generated code:

Reviewer: Unless I missed something you're recommending they work on their `master` branch which is a bad idea. 

should we have recommended to immediately create a branch once they cloned their repo? or here is good too.

::

   git add .
   git commit

2. Fetch and rebase to current master

::

   git fetch upstream
   git rebase upstream/master

3. Push the changes to your account using:

::

   git push -u origin a-descriptive-name-for-my-changes

4. Once you are satisfied, go to the webpage of your fork on GitHub. Click on “Pull request”. Make sure to add the
   GitHub handle of some members of the Hugging Face team as reviewers, so that the Hugging Face team gets notified for
   future changes.

5. Change the PR into a draft by clicking on “Convert to draft” on the right of the GitHub pull request web page.

> In the following, whenever you have done some progress, don’t forget to commit your work and push it to your account so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, whenever you have done some progress, don't forget to commit your work and push it to your account so
```

that it shows in the pull request. Additionally, you should make sure to update your work with the current master from
time to time by doing:

::

   git fetch upstream
   git merge upstream/master

In general, all questions you might have regarding the model or your implementation should be asked in your PR and
discussed/solved in the PR. This way, the Hugging Face team will always be notified when you are committing new code or
if you have a question. It is often very helpful to point the Hugging Face team to your added code so that the Hugging
Face team can efficiently understand your problem or question.

To do so, you can go to the “Files changed” tab where you see all of your changes, go to a line regarding which you
want to ask a question, and click on the “+” symbol to add a comment. Whenever a question or problem has been solved,
you can click on the “Resolve” button of the created comment.

In the same way, the Hugging Face team will open comments when reviewing your code. We recommend asking most questions
on GitHub on your PR. For some very general questions that are not very useful for the public, feel free to ping the

> Hugging Face team by Slack or mail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hugging Face team by Slack or email.
```

**Adapt the generated models code for brand_new_bert**

At first, we will focus only on the model itself and not care about the tokenizer. All the relevant code should be
found in the generated files ``src/transformers/models/brand_new_bert/modeling_brand_new_bert.py`` and
``src/transformers/models/brand_new_bert/configuration_brand_new_bert.py``.

Now you can finally start coding :). The generated code in
``src/transformers/models/brand_new_bert/modeling_brand_new_bert.py`` will either have the same architecture as BERT if

> it’s an encoder-only model or BART if it’s an encoder-decoder model. At this point, you should remind yourself what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it's an encoder-only model or BART if it’s an encoder-decoder model. At this point, you should remind yourself what
```
there are quite a few of these in the text, could you please s/’/'/g in the editor as this is not the right apostrophe - @sgugger please correct me if I'm wrong.

you’ve learned in the beginning about the theoretical aspects of the model: *How is the model different from BERT or
BART?*". Implement those changes which often means to change the *self-attention* layer, the order of the normalization
layer, etc… Again, it is often useful to look at the similar architecture of already existing models in Transformers to
get a better feeling of how your model should be implemented.

**Note** that at this point, you don’t have to be very sure that your code is fully correct or clean. Rather, it is
advised to add a first *unclean*, copy-pasted version of the original code to
``src/transformers/models/brand_new_bert/modeling_brand_new_bert.py`` until you feel like all the necessary code is
added. From our experience, it is much more efficient to quickly add a first version of the required code and
improve/correct the code iteratively with the conversion script as described in the next section. The only thing that

> has to work at this point is that you can instantiate the 🤗 Transformers implementation of *brand_new_bert*, *i.e.* the
> following command works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has to work at this point is that you can instantiate the 🤗 Transformers implementation of *brand_new_bert*, *i.e.* the
following command should work:
```

.. code:: python

   from transformers import BrandNewBertModel, BrandNewBertConfig
   model = BrandNewBertModel(BrandNewBertConfig())

The above command will create a model according to the default parameters as defined in ``BrandNewBertConfig()`` with
random weights, thus making sure that the ``init()`` methods of all components works.

> **Write a conversion script**

Reviewer: Perhaps numbering the major steps would help one to get a better idea where they are at in the process?

the original repository to a checkpoint compatible with your just created 🤗 Transformers implementation of
*brand_new_bert*. It is not advised to write the conversion script from scratch, but rather to look through already
existing conversion scripts in 🤗 Transformers for one that has been used to convert a similar model that was written in
the same framework as *brand_new_bert*. Usually, it is enough to copy an already existing conversion script and
slightly adapt it for your use case. Don’t hesitate to ask the Hugging Face team to point you to a similar already
existing conversion script for your model.

-  If you are porting a model from TensorFlow to PyTorch, a good starting point might be BERT’s conversion script `here
   <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/7acfa95afb8194f8f9c1f4d2c6028224dbed35a2/src/transformers/models/bert/modeling_bert.py#L91>`__
-  If you are porting a model from PyTorch to PyTorch, a good starting point might be BART’s conversion script `here
   <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/src/transformers/models/bart/convert_bart_original_pytorch_checkpoint_to_pytorch.py>`__

> In the following, we’ll quickly explain how PyTorch models stores layer weights and define layer names. In PyTorch, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, we’ll quickly explain how PyTorch models store layer weights and define layer names. In PyTorch, the
```

name of a layer is defined by the name of the class attribute you give the layer. Let’s define a dummy model in
PyTorch, called ``SimpleModel`` as follows:

.. code:: python

   import torch.nn as nn

   class SimpleModel(nn.Module):
       def __init__(self):
               super().__init__()
               self.dense = nn.Linear(10, 10)
               self.intermediate = nn.Linear(10, 10)
               self.layer_norm = nn.LayerNorm(10)

Now we can create an instance of this model definition which will fill all weights: ``dense, intermediate, layer_norm``
with random weights. We can print the model to see its architecture

.. code:: python

   model = SimpleModel()

   print(model)

This will print out the following:

.. code:: bash

   SimpleModel(
     (dense): Linear(in_features=10, out_features=10, bias=True)
     (intermediate): Linear(in_features=10, out_features=10, bias=True)
     (layer_norm): LayerNorm((10,), eps=1e-05, elementwise_affine=True)
   )

> We can see that the layer names are defined by the name of the class attribute in PyTorch. Printing out the values of a
> weight,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can see that the layer names are defined by the name of the class attribute in PyTorch. You can print out the weight values of a specific layer:
```

.. code:: python

   print(model.dense.weight.data)

> shows that the weights were randomly initialized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to see that the weights were randomly initialized
```

.. code:: bash

   tensor([[-0.0818,  0.2207, -0.0749, -0.0030,  0.0045, -0.1569, -0.1598,  0.0212,
            -0.2077,  0.2157],
           [ 0.1044,  0.0201,  0.0990,  0.2482,  0.3116,  0.2509,  0.2866, -0.2190,
             0.2166, -0.0212],
           [-0.2000,  0.1107, -0.1999, -0.3119,  0.1559,  0.0993,  0.1776, -0.1950,
            -0.1023, -0.0447],
           [-0.0888, -0.1092,  0.2281,  0.0336,  0.1817, -0.0115,  0.2096,  0.1415,
            -0.1876, -0.2467],
           [ 0.2208, -0.2352, -0.1426, -0.2636, -0.2889, -0.2061, -0.2849, -0.0465,
             0.2577,  0.0402],
           [ 0.1502,  0.2465,  0.2566,  0.0693,  0.2352, -0.0530,  0.1859, -0.0604,
             0.2132,  0.1680],
           [ 0.1733, -0.2407, -0.1721,  0.1484,  0.0358, -0.0633, -0.0721, -0.0090,
             0.2707, -0.2509],
           [-0.1173,  0.1561,  0.2945,  0.0595, -0.1996,  0.2988, -0.0802,  0.0407,
             0.1829, -0.1568],
           [-0.1164, -0.2228, -0.0403,  0.0428,  0.1339,  0.0047,  0.1967,  0.2923,
             0.0333, -0.0536],
           [-0.1492, -0.1616,  0.1057,  0.1950, -0.2807, -0.2710, -0.1586,  0.0739,
             0.2220,  0.2358]]).

> In the conversion script, you should fill those randomly initialized weights with the corresponding pretrained weights
> of the checkpoint by setting ``weight.data`` pointer to its respective layer weight of the checkpoint. *E.g.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the conversion script, you should fill those randomly initialized weights with the exact weights of the corresponding layer in the checkpoint. *E.g.*
```

.. code:: python

   # retrieve matching layer weights, e.g. by 
   # recursive algorithm
   layer_name = "dense"
   pretrained_weight = array_of_dense_layer

   model_pointer = getattr(model, "dense")

   model_pointer.weight.data = torch.from_numpy(pretrained_weight)

While doing so, you must verify that each randomly initialized weight of your PyTorch model and its corresponding
pretrained checkpoint weight exactly match in both **shape and name**. To do so, it is **necessary** to add assert
statements for the shape and print out the names of the checkpoints weights. E.g. you should add statements like:

> 

Reviewer: Boy, this sounds a way too complicated and long. Why not just load the state dict directly? It will complain if there is a mismatch.

https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/5ed5a54684ef059fa4c9710858b8e03c61295914/src/transformers/models/fsmt/convert_fsmt_original_pytorch_checkpoint_to_pytorch.py#L252

I think one thing is to explain the concept of what's needed to be done, and this code is great as an experiment in understanding. But doing it manually for each layer is an overkill, IMHO.

Author: I don't agree here, first lots of models are ported from TF to PT where `load_state_dict` is not possible. Second, I don't really want to incentivize people to keep the exact parameter naming as the original model. E.g. I'm not a big fan of things like `self.ff = nn.Dense(....)` -> I'd prefer to rename `self.ff` to `self.dense` for consistency with our existing model implementations, such as BERT

PyTorch’s implementation of a layer requires the weight to be transposed beforehand.

Finally, you should also check that **all** required weights are initialized and print out all checkpoint weights that
were not used for initialization to make sure the model is correctly converted. It is completely normal, that the
conversion trials fail with either a wrong shape statement or wrong name assignment. This is most likely because either
you used incorrect parameters in ``BrandNewBertConfig()``, have a wrong architecture in the 🤗 Transformers
implementation, you have a bug in the ``init()`` functions of one of the components of the 🤗 Transformers
implementation or you need to transpose one of the checkpoint weights.

This step should be iterated with the previous step until all weights of the checkpoint are correctly loaded in the
Transformers model. Having correctly loaded the checkpoint into the 🤗 Transformers implementation, you can then save
the model under a folder of your choice ``/path/to/converted/checkpoint/folder`` that should include both a
``pytorch_model.bin`` file and a ``config.json`` file.

> 

Reviewer: example code to save would be great:
```
 torch.save(model_state_dict, path)
```

fully comply with the required design. To make sure, the implementation is fully compatible with 🤗 Transformers, all
common tests should pass. The Cookiecutter should have automatically added a test file for your model, probably under
the same ``tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py``. Run this test file to verify that all common tests pass:

.. code:: python

   pytest tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py

Having fixed all common tests, it is now crucial to ensure that all the nice work you have done is well tested, so that

-  

   a) The community can easily understand your work by looking at specific tests of *brand_new_bert*

-  

   b) Future changes to your model will not break any important feature of the model.

At first, integration tests should be added. Those integration tests essentially do the same as the debugging scripts
you used earlier to implement the model to 🤗 Transformers. A template of those model tests is already added by the
Cookiecutter, called ``BrandNewBertModelIntegrationTests`` and only has to be filled out by you. To ensure that those
tests are passing, run

.. code:: python

>    RUN_SLOW=1 pytest tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py::BrandNewBertModelIntegrationTests

Reviewer: might add an option to run `pytest -sv` to watch outputs? Perhaps as a second option, so that the first run isn't too much as it spits out a lot of things and then mentioning the -k option to work on just one sub-test, should a whole bunch of them fail.

Second, all features that are special to *brand_new_bert* should be tested additionally in a separate test under
``BrandNewBertModelTester``/``BrandNewBertModelTest``. This part is often forgotten but is extremely useful in two
ways:

-  It helps to transfer the knowledge you have acquired during the model addition to the community by showing how the
   special features of *brand_new_bert* should work.
-  Future contributors can quickly test changes to the model by running those special tests.

**Implement the tokenizer**

Next, we should add the tokenizer of *brand_new_bert*. Usually, the tokenizer is equivalent or very similar to an
already existing tokenizer of 🤗 Transformers.

It is very important to find/extract the original tokenizer file and to manage to load this file into the 🤗
Transformers’ implementation of the tokenizer.

> To ensure that the tokenizer works correctly, it is recommend to analogous to the model, first create a script in the

Reviewer: not sure what you meant by "it is recommend to analogous to the model"

> To ensure that the tokenizer works correctly, it is recommend to analogous to the model, first create a script in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that the tokenizer works correctly, it is recommended to first create a script in the
```

   from transformers import BrandNewBertTokenizer
   input_str = "This is a long example input string containing special characters .$?-, numbers 2872 234 12 and words."

   tokenizer = BrandNewBertTokenizer.from_pretrained(/path/to/tokenizer/folder/)

   input_ids = tokenizer(input_str).input_ids

When both ``input_ids`` yield the same values, as a final step a tokenizer test file should also be added.

Analogous to the modeling test files of *brand_new_bert*, the tokenization test files of *brand_new_bert* should
contain a couple of hard-coded integration tests.

**Run End-to-end integration tests**

Having added the tokenizer, you should also add a couple of end-to-end integration tests using both the model and the
tokenizer to ``tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py`` in 🤗 Transformers. Such a test should show on a meaningful
text-to-text sample that the 🤗 Transformers implementation works as expected. A meaningful text-to-text sample can
include *e.g.* a source-to-target-translation pair, an article-to-summary pair, a question-to-answer pair, etc… If none
of the ported checkpoints has been fine-tuned on a downstream task it is enough to simply rely on the model tests. In a

> final step to ensure that the model is fully functional, you should also run all tests on GPU. It can happen that you

Reviewer: but remember at the beginning you said, you don't need to worry about setting up CUDA - so at some point we need to show how to get the right pytorch (should they installed the cpu version).

correct and included all necessary inputs and outputs. It is always to good to remind oneself that documentation should
be treated at least as carefully as the code in 🤗 Transformers since the documentation is usually the first contact
point of the community with the model.

**Code refactor**

Great, now you have added all the necessary code for *brand_new_bert*. At this point, you should correct some potential
incorrect code style by running:

.. code:: bash

   make style

and verify that your coding style passes the quality check:

.. code:: bash

   make quality

There are a couple of other very strict design tests in 🤗 Transformers that might still be failing, which shows up in
the tests of your pull request. This is often because of some missing information in the docstring or some incorrect
naming. The Hugging Face team will surely help you if you’re stuck here.

Lastly, it is always a good idea to refactor one’s code after having ensured that the code works correctly. With all
tests passing, now it’s a good time to go over the added code again and do some refactoring.

You have now finished the coding part, congratulation! 🎉 You are Awesome! 😎

> **Upload the models to the modeling hub**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Upload the models to the model hub**
```

:)

In this final part, you should convert and upload all checkpoints to the model hub and add a model card for each
uploaded model checkpoint. You should work alongside the Hugging Face team here to decide on a fitting name for each
checkpoint and to get the required access rights to be able to upload the model under the author’s organization of
*brand_new_bert*.

It is worth spending some time to create fitting model cards for each checkpoint. The model cards should highlight the
specific characteristics of this particular checkpoint, *e.g.* On which dataset was the checkpoint

> pretrained/fine-tuned on? On what down-stream task should the model be used? and also include some code on how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pretrained/fine-tuned on? On what down-stream task should the model be used? And also include some code on how to
```

correctly use the model.

**(Optional) Add notebook**

It is very helpful to add a notebook that showcases in-detail how *brand_new_bert* can be used for inference and/or
fine-tuned on a downstream task. This is not mandatory to merge your PR, but very useful for the community.

Share your work!!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now, it’s time to get some credit from the community for your work! Having completed a model addition is a major

> contribution to Transformers and the whole NLP community. Your code will certainly be used by hundreds of developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contribution to Transformers and the whole NLP community. Your code and the ported pre-trained models will certainly be used by hundreds and possibly even thousands of developers
```

Overview of models
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To successfully add a model, it is important to understand the interaction between your model and its config,
:class:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel`, and :class:`~transformers.PretrainedConfig`.

Let's take a look:

.. image:: ./imgs/transformers_overview.png

As you can see, we do make use of inheritance in 🤗 Transformers, but we keep the level of abstraction to an absolute
minimum. There are never more than two levels of abstraction for any model in the library. :obj:`BrandNewBertModel`
inherits from :obj:`BrandNewBertPreTrainedModel` which in turn inherits from :class:`~transformres.PreTrainedModel` and
that's it. As a general rule, we want to make sure that a new model only depends on
:class:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel`. The important functionalities that are automatically provided to every new
model are :meth:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained` and
:meth:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel.save_pretrained`, which are used for serialization and deserialization. All of the

> other important functionalities, such as :meth:`BrandNewBertModelforward` should be completely defined in the new

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
other important functionalities, such as :meth:`BrandNewBertModel.forward` should be completely defined in the new
```

   than happy to help you at every step to add your model. Don't hesitate to ask if you notice you are not making
   progress.

In the following, we try to give you a general recipe that we found most useful when porting a model to 🤗 Transformers.

The following list is a summary of everything that has to be done to add a model and can be used by you as a To-Do
List:

-  1. ☐ (Optional) Understood theoretical aspects
-  2. ☐ Prepared transformers dev environment
-  3. ☐ Set up debugging environment of the original repository
-  4. ☐ Created script that successfully runs forward pass using original repository and checkpoint
-  5. ☐ Successfully added the model skeleton to Transformers
-  6. ☐ Successfully converted original checkpoint to Transformers checkpoint
-  7. ☐ Successfully ran forward pass in Transformers that gives identical output to original checkpoint
-  8. ☐ Finished model tests in Transformers
-  9. ☐ Successfully added Tokenizer in Transformers
-  10. ☐ Run end-to-end integration tests
-  11. ☐ Finished docs
-  12. ☐ Uploaded model weights to the hub
-  13. ☐ Submitted the pull request
-  14. ☐ (Optional) Added a demo notebook

> For exemplary purposes, we will call the model that we will add to 🤗 Transformers ``BrandNewBert``.

Reviewer 5: This line should be moved above, since ``BrandNewBert`` has already been mentioned.

if you prefer to understand the theoretical aspects of the model *on-the-job*, then it is totally fine to directly dive
into the ``BrandNewBert``'s code-base. This option might suit you better, if your engineering skills are better than
your theoretical skill, if you have trouble understanding ``BrandNewBert``'s paper, or if you just enjoy programming
much more than reading scientific papers.

1. (Optional) Theoretical aspects of BrandNewBert
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You should take some time to read *BrandNewBert's* paper, if such descriptive work exists. There might be large
sections of the paper that are difficult to understand. If this is the case, this is fine - don't worry! The goal is
not to get a deep theoretical understanding of the paper, but to extract the necessary information required to
effectively re-implement the model in 🤗 Transformers. That being said, you don't have to spend too much time on the
theoretical aspects, but rather focus on the practical ones, namely:

> -  What type of model is *brand_new_bert*? BERT-like encoder-only model? GPT2-like decoder-only model? BART-like
>    encoder-decoder model?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-  What type of model is *brand_new_bert*? BERT-like encoder-only model? GPT2-like decoder-only model? BART-like
   encoder-decoder model? Look at the :doc:`model_summary` if you're not familiar with the differences between those.
```

-  What are the applications of *brand_new_bert*? Text classification? Text generation? Seq2Seq tasks, *e.g.,*
   summarization?

> -  What is the novel feature of the model making it different from BERT or BART (if it's an encoder-decoder model)?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-  What is the novel feature of the model making it different from BERT/GPT-2/BART?
```
(to do the same distinction as before).

   work with an interactive debugger like `ipdb`, or should you use an efficient IDE to debug the model, like PyCharm?

It is very important that before you start the porting process, that you can **efficiently** debug code in the original
repository! Also, remember that you are working with an open-source library, so do not hesitate to open an issue, or
even a pull request in the original repository. The maintainers of this repository are most likely very happy about
someone looking into their code!

At this point, it is really up to you which debugging environment and strategy you prefer to use to debug the original
model. We strongly advise against setting up a costly GPU environment, but simply work on a CPU both when starting to
dive into the original repository and also when starting to write the 🤗 Transformers implementation of the model. Only
at the very end, when the model has already been successfully ported to 🤗 Transformers, one should verify that the
model also works as expected on GPU.

In general, there are two possible debugging environments for running the original model

> -  `Jupyter notebooks <https://jupyter.org/>`_, *e.g.* `google colab
>    <https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb>`_

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-  `Jupyter notebooks <https://jupyter.org/>`__ / `google colab
   <https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb>`__
```
Let's not say they are the same :-p

Again, it is up to you which strategy to choose. Often, one or the other is advantageous depending on the original code
base.

If the original code-base allows you to decompose the model into smaller sub-components, *e.g.* if the original
code-base can easily be run in eager mode, it is usually worth the effort to do so. There are some important advantages
to taking the more difficult road in the beginning:

-  at a later stage when comparing the original model to the Hugging Face implementation, you can verify automatically
   for each component individually that the corresponding component of the 🤗 Transformers implementation matches
   instead of relying on visual comparison via print statements
-  it can give you some rope to decompose the big problem of porting a model into smaller problems of just porting
   individual components and thus structure your work better
-  separating the model into logical meaningful components will help you to get a better overview of the model's design
   and thus to better understand the model
- at a later stage those component-by-component tests help you to ensure that no regression occurs as you continue

>   changing your code

Reviewer 5: This list has weird indent for the first three items (the last one is correct). Or the opposite if you prefer two spaces after the list separator :-)

model and the reimplemented version in 🤗 Transformers have to give the exact same output up to a precision of 0.001!
Since it is normal that the exact same model written in different libraries can give a slightly different output
depending on the library framework, we accept an error tolerance of 1e-3 (0.001). It is not enough if the model gives
nearly the same output, they have to be the almost identical. Therefore, you will certainly compare the intermediate
outputs of the 🤗 Transformers version multiple times against the intermediate outputs of the original implementation of
*brand_new_bert* in which case an **efficient** debugging environment of the original repository is absolutely
important. Here is some advice is to make your debugging environment as efficient as possible.

-  Find the best way of debugging intermediate results. Is the original repository written in PyTorch? Then you should
   probably take the time to write a longer script that decomposes the original model into smaller sub-components to
   retrieve intermediate values. Is the original repository written in Tensorflow 1? Then you might have to rely on

>    TensorFlow print operations like https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/print to output intermediate values.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   TensorFlow print operations like `tf.print <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/print>`__ to output intermediate values.
```

   Is the original repository written in Jax? Then make sure that the model is **not jitted** when running the forward

>    pass, *e.g.* check-out `this link <https://github.com/google/jax/issues/196>`_.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   pass, *e.g.* check-out `this link <https://github.com/google/jax/issues/196>`__.
```

-  Use the smallest pretrained checkpoint you can find. The smaller the checkpoint, the faster your debug cycle
   becomes. It is not efficient if your pretrained model is so big that your forward pass takes more than 10 seconds.
   In case only very large checkpoints are available, it might make more sense to create a dummy model in the new
   environment with randomly initialized weights and save those weights for comparison with the 🤗 Transformers version
   of your model
-  Make sure you are using the easiest way of calling a forward pass in the original repository. Ideally, you want to
   find the function in the original repository that **only** calls a single forward pass, *i.e.* that is often called

>    `'predict``, ``evaluate``, ``forward`` or ``__call__``. You don't want to debug a function that calls ``forward``

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   ``predict``, ``evaluate``, ``forward`` or ``__call__``. You don't want to debug a function that calls ``forward``
```

Next, you can finally start adding new code to 🤗 Transformers. Go into the clone of your 🤗 Transformers' fork:

::

   cd transformers

In the special case that you are adding a model whose architecture exactly matches the model architecture of an
existing model you only have to add a conversion script as described in `this section <#write-a-conversion-script>`__.
In this case, you can just re-use the whole model architecture of the already existing model.

Otherwise, let's start generating a new model with the amazing Cookiecutter!

**Use the Cookiecutter to automatically generate the model's code**

To begin with head over to the `🤗 Transformers templates
<https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/templates/adding_a_new_model>`__ to make use of our
``cookiecutter`` implementation to automatically generate all the relevant files for your model. Again, we recommend
only adding the PyTorch version of the model at first. Make sure you follow the instructions of the ``README.md`` on
the `🤗 Transformers templates <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/templates/adding_a_new_model>`__
carefully.

> **Open a Pull Request on the main ``huggingface/transformers`` repo**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Open a Pull Request on the main huggingface/transformers repo**
```
The nested-ness is not working.

existing conversion script for your model.

-  If you are porting a model from TensorFlow to PyTorch, a good starting point might be BERT's conversion script `here
   <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/7acfa95afb8194f8f9c1f4d2c6028224dbed35a2/src/transformers/models/bert/modeling_bert.py#L91>`__
-  If you are porting a model from PyTorch to PyTorch, a good starting point might be BART's conversion script `here
   <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/src/transformers/models/bart/convert_bart_original_pytorch_checkpoint_to_pytorch.py>`__

In the following, we'll quickly explain how PyTorch models store layer weights and define layer names. In PyTorch, the
name of a layer is defined by the name of the class attribute you give the layer. Let's define a dummy model in
PyTorch, called ``SimpleModel`` as follows:

.. code:: python

   import torch.nn as nn

   class SimpleModel(nn.Module):
       def __init__(self):
               super().__init__()
               self.dense = nn.Linear(10, 10)
               self.intermediate = nn.Linear(10, 10)
               self.layer_norm = nn.LayerNorm(10)

> Now we can create an instance of this model definition which will fill all weights: ``dense, intermediate, layer_norm``

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now we can create an instance of this model definition which will fill all weights: ``dense``, ``intermediate``, ``layer_norm``
```

conversion trials fail with either a wrong shape statement or wrong name assignment. This is most likely because either
you used incorrect parameters in ``BrandNewBertConfig()``, have a wrong architecture in the 🤗 Transformers
implementation, you have a bug in the ``init()`` functions of one of the components of the 🤗 Transformers
implementation or you need to transpose one of the checkpoint weights.

This step should be iterated with the previous step until all weights of the checkpoint are correctly loaded in the
Transformers model. Having correctly loaded the checkpoint into the 🤗 Transformers implementation, you can then save
the model under a folder of your choice ``/path/to/converted/checkpoint/folder`` that should then contain both a
``pytorch_model.bin`` file and a ``config.json`` file:

.. code:: python

   model.save_pretrained("/path/to/converted/checkpoint/folder")

**7. Implement the forward pass**

Having managed to correctly load the pretrained weights into the 🤗 Transformers implementation, you should now make
sure that the forward pass is correctly implemented. In `Get familiar with the original repository

> <#get-familiar-with-the-original-repository>`__, you have already created a script that runs a forward pass of the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<#run-a-pretrained-checkpoint-using-the-original-repository>`__, you have already created a script that runs a forward pass of the
```
You should use an anchor to avoid the link changing with the section name (see model_summary.rst for an example).

model using the original repository. Now you should write an analogous script using the 🤗 Transformers implementation
instead of the original one. It should look as follows:

.. code:: python

   model = BrandNewBertModel.from_pretrained(/path/to/converted/checkpoint/folder)
   input_ids = [0, 4, 4, 3, 2, 4, 1, 7, 19]
   output = model(input_ids).last_hidden_states

It is very likely that the 🤗 Transformers implementation and the original model implementation don't give the exact
same output the very first time or that the forward pass throws an error. Don't be disappointed - it's expected! First,
you should make sure that the forward pass doesn't throw any errors. It often happens that the wrong dimensions are

> used leading to a ``Dimensionality mismatch`` error or that the wrong data type object is used, *e.g.* ``torch.long``

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
used leading to a `Dimensionality mismatch` error or that the wrong data type object is used, *e.g.* ``torch.long``
```
Think we want italics here.

common tests should pass. The Cookiecutter should have automatically added a test file for your model, probably under
the same ``tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py``. Run this test file to verify that all common tests pass:

.. code:: python

   pytest tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py

Having fixed all common tests, it is now crucial to ensure that all the nice work you have done is well tested, so that

-  

   a) The community can easily understand your work by looking at specific tests of *brand_new_bert*

-  

   b) Future changes to your model will not break any important feature of the model.

At first, integration tests should be added. Those integration tests essentially do the same as the debugging scripts
you used earlier to implement the model to 🤗 Transformers. A template of those model tests is already added by the
Cookiecutter, called ``BrandNewBertModelIntegrationTests`` and only has to be filled out by you. To ensure that those
tests are passing, run

.. code:: python

   RUN_SLOW=1 pytest -sv tests/test_modeling_brand_new_bert.py::BrandNewBertModelIntegrationTests

> *In case you are using Windows, you should replace ``RUN_SLOW=1`` with ``SET RUN_SLOW=1``.* Second, all features that

Reviewer 5: Put the windows part in a note:

```
.. note::

    In case...
```
The nested-ness is not working.
